- [Instructor] In this lesson, we're going to talk about
one of the pitfalls that new users of Git commonly
experience when they first start collaborating
via a central repository with their team.
So in this scenario, we have two team members,
user one and user two.
They're both working on a very simple repository
that contains a demo file.
If we take a look at the demo file, it's pretty simple.
It just has some content in it.
And let's imagine that user one wants
to make a change to the demo file,
so they open the file with vim
and then they're going to go ahead and add their changes.
Once they're satisfied with their changes,
they can write the file,
then they're going to add those changes to the stage
and then perform the commit.
At this point, they're going to then push
those changes to the central repository
and they're now available for all of the team
to pull into their own local repositories.
Now let's talk about user two.
User two would also like to modify the demo file,
so they open the file with vim,
and now they're going to add their changes.
So their changes are in place, they write the file,
and then at this point they decide they want
to sync with the central repository.
So, they're going to pull the master directory
from the central repository.
You'll notice that Git warns them that they
have untracked changes that would be overwritten
if they were to perform the pull.
This is a common scenario that new users of Git experience.
They start working with a central repository
and they think they can pull at any old time.
Well, you need to either have a clean working directory,
which means at this point we would either need
to perform a Git reset using the hard flag,
or we need to commit our changes and then perform the pull.
So, let's do the commit so we will issue the commit command.
I'm going to use the AM flag here to both add to the stage
and then perform the commit with a message.
So we'll say user two changes, and at this point,
we've done our commit and now let's go ahead
and do the pull from the central repository.
You'll notice that Git is now warning us
about a merge conflict.
And this is a result of not having pulled down
the local changes and two users modifying the same file.
So this is another pitfall that you may have to deal with
when working in a team and that's merge conflicts.
So let's go ahead and work to resolve our merge conflict.
We're going to open the demo file and you'll notice
that Git has put some metadata in the file to help us
so that we can determine how to resolve this conflict.
In this case, I'm going to remove some of this metadata
and then we're going to add our modifications
to resolve this merge conflict.
So let's just say that user one and user two
have modified the file and then we'll take out
that additional line and at this point
I'm gonna write the file and we can now do the commit.
We'll say we resolved the merge conflict
and then we can push these changes back up to master.
Now everything's in sync.
So we resolved two common pitfalls there.
First, we looked at untracked changes in
your working directory and how they affect a pull,
and then we looked at merge conflicts
and saw how to resolve them.